docs/cli/catalog_create_cluster.md, before:

## catalog create cluster

Create a cluster

```
catalog create cluster <name> [flags]
```

### Options

```
  -h, --help                    help for cluster
      --labels stringToString   Labels in the format key=value (default [])
      --nodes strings           Mandatory list of nodes in the format <id>:<role>
      --template string         Cluster template to use
```

### Options inherited from parent commands

```
      --catalog-endpoint string      Catalog Service Endpoint (default "https://api.kind.internal/")
      --debug-headers                emit debug-style headers separating columns via '|' character
      --deployment-endpoint string   Deployment Service Endpoint (default "https://api.kind.internal/")
  -n, --noauth                       use without authentication checks
  -p, --project string               Active project name
  -v, --verbose                      produce verbose output
```

### SEE ALSO

* [catalog create](catalog_create.md)	 - Create various catalog service entities

###### Auto generated by spf13/cobra on 13-May-2025

Commit message:

doc: add examples to create cluster command

docs/cli/catalog_create_cluster.md, after:

## catalog create cluster

Create a cluster

```
catalog create cluster <name> [flags]
```

### Examples

```
# Create a cluster with the name "my-cluster" on the given nodes using the default template
orch-cli create cluster cli-cluster --project some-project --nodes d7911144-3010-11f0-a1c2-370d26b04195:all

# Create a cluster with the name "my-cluster" using the specified template on the given nodes and with the provided label
orch-cli create cluster cli-cluster --project some-project --nodes d7911144-3010-11f0-a1c2-370d26b04195:all --labels sample-label=samplevalue --template sometemplate-v1.0.0

# Create a cluster with the name "my-cluster" on the given nodes using the default template and with the provided multiple labels
orch-cli create cluster cli-cluster --project some-project --nodes d7911144-3010-11f0-a1c2-370d26b04195:all --labels sample-label=samplevalue,another-label=another-value
```

### Options

```
  -h, --help                    help for cluster
      --labels stringToString   Labels in the format key=value (default [])
      --nodes strings           Mandatory list of nodes in the format <id>:<role>
      --template string         Cluster template to use
```

### Options inherited from parent commands

```
      --catalog-endpoint string      Catalog Service Endpoint (default "https://api.kind.internal/")
      --debug-headers                emit debug-style headers separating columns via '|' character
      --deployment-endpoint string   Deployment Service Endpoint (default "https://api.kind.internal/")
  -n, --noauth                       use without authentication checks
  -p, --project string               Active project name
  -v, --verbose                      produce verbose output
```

### SEE ALSO

* [catalog create](catalog_create.md)	 - Create various catalog service entities

###### Auto generated by spf13/cobra on 15-May-2025
