docs/cli/catalog_create_host.md, before:

## catalog create host

Provisions a host or hosts

```
catalog create host --import-from-csv] [flags]
```

### Examples

```
# Provision a host or a number of hosts from a CSV file

# Generate CSV input file using the --generate-csv flag - the output will be a base test.csv file.
orch-cli create host --project some-project --generate-csv

# Sample input csv file hosts.csv

Serial - Serial Number of the machine - mandatory field
UUID - UUID of the machine - mandatory field
OSProfile - OS Profile to be used for provisioning of the host - name of the profile or it's resource ID - mandatory field
Site - The resource ID of the site to which the host will be provisioned - mandatory field
Secure - Optional security feature to configure for the host - must be supported by OS Profile if enabled
Remote User - Optional remote user name or resource ID to configure for the host
Metadata - Optional metadata to configure for the host
AMTEnable - Optional AMT feature to be configured for the host
CloudInitMeta - Optional Cloud Init Metadata to be configured for the host
K8sClusterTemplate - Optional Cluster template to be used for K8s deployment on the host

Serial,UUID,OSProfile,Site,Secure,RemoteUser,Metadata,AMTEnable,CloudInitMeta,K8sClusterTemplate,Error - do not fill
2500JF3,4c4c4544-2046-5310-8052-cac04f515233,ubuntu-22.04-lts-generic,site-c69a3c81,,localaccount-4c2c5f5a
1500JF3,1c4c4544-2046-5310-8052-cac04f515233,ubuntu-22.04-lts-generic-ext,site-c69a3c81,false,,key1=value1&key2=value2
15002F3,1c4c4544-2046-5310-8052-cac04f512233,ubuntu-22.04-lts-generic-ext,site-c69a3c81,false,,key1=value2&key3=value4

# --dry-run allows for verification of the validity of the input csv file without creating hosts
orch-cli create host --project some-project --import-from-csv test.csv --dry-run

# Create hosts - --import-from-csv is a mandatory flag pointing to the input file. Succesfully provisioned host indicated by output - errors provided in output file
orch-cli create host --project some-project --import-from-csv test.csv

```

### Options

```
  -d, --dry-run                  Verify the validity of input CSV file
  -g, --generate-csv             Generates a template CSV file for host import
  -h, --help                     help for host
  -i, --import-from-csv string   CSV file containing information about to be provisioned hosts
```

### Options inherited from parent commands

```
      --catalog-endpoint string      Catalog Service Endpoint (default "https://api.kind.internal/")
      --debug-headers                emit debug-style headers separating columns via '|' character
      --deployment-endpoint string   Deployment Service Endpoint (default "https://api.kind.internal/")
  -n, --noauth                       use without authentication checks
  -p, --project string               Active project name
  -v, --verbose                      produce verbose output
```

### SEE ALSO

* [catalog create](catalog_create.md)	 - Create various catalog service entities

###### Auto generated by spf13/cobra on 30-May-2025

Commit message:

Add override flags + update doc

docs/cli/catalog_create_host.md, after:

## catalog create host

Provisions a host or hosts

```
catalog create host --import-from-csv] [flags]
```

### Examples

```
# Provision a host or a number of hosts from a CSV file

# Generate CSV input file using the --generate-csv flag - the output will be a base test.csv file.
orch-cli create host --project some-project --generate-csv

# Sample input csv file hosts.csv

Serial - Serial Number of the machine - mandatory field
UUID - UUID of the machine - mandatory field
OSProfile - OS Profile to be used for provisioning of the host - name of the profile or it's resource ID - mandatory field
Site - The resource ID of the site to which the host will be provisioned - mandatory field
Secure - Optional security feature to configure for the host - must be supported by OS Profile if enabled
Remote User - Optional remote user name or resource ID to configure for the host
Metadata - Optional metadata to configure for the host
AMTEnable - Optional AMT feature to be configured for the host
CloudInitMeta - Optional Cloud Init Metadata to be configured for the host
K8sClusterTemplate - Optional Cluster template to be used for K8s deployment on the host

Serial,UUID,OSProfile,Site,Secure,RemoteUser,Metadata,AMTEnable,CloudInitMeta,K8sClusterTemplate,Error - do not fill
2500JF3,4c4c4544-2046-5310-8052-cac04f515233,ubuntu-22.04-lts-generic,site-c69a3c81,,localaccount-4c2c5f5a
1500JF3,1c4c4544-2046-5310-8052-cac04f515233,ubuntu-22.04-lts-generic-ext,site-c69a3c81,false,,key1=value1&key2=value2
15002F3,1c4c4544-2046-5310-8052-cac04f512233,ubuntu-22.04-lts-generic-ext,site-c69a3c81,false,,key1=value2&key3=value4

# --dry-run allows for verification of the validity of the input csv file without creating hosts
orch-cli create host --project some-project --import-from-csv test.csv --dry-run

# Create hosts - --import-from-csv is a mandatory flag pointing to the input file. Successfully provisioned host indicated by output - errors provided in output file
orch-cli create host --project some-project --import-from-csv test.csv

# Optional flag ovverides - the flag will override all instances of an attribute inside the CSV file

--remote-user - name or id of a SSH user
--site - site ID
--secure - true or false - security feature configuration
--os-profile - name or ID of the OS profile
--metadata - key value paired metatada separated by &, must be put in quotes.

# Create hosts from CSV and override provided values
/orch-cli create host --project some-project --import-from-csv test.csv --os-profile ubuntu-22.04-lts-generic-ext --secure false --site site-7ca0a77c --remote-user user --metadata "key7=val7key3=val3"

```

### Options

```
  -d, --dry-run                  Verify the validity of input CSV file
  -g, --generate-csv             Generates a template CSV file for host import
  -h, --help                     help for host
  -i, --import-from-csv string   CSV file containing information about to be provisioned hosts
  -m, --metadata string          Override the metadata provided in CSV file for all hosts
  -o, --os-profile string        Override the OSProfile provided in CSV file for all hosts
  -r, --remote-user string       Override the metadata provided in CSV file for all hosts
  -x, --secure string            Override the security feature configuration provided in CSV file for all hosts
  -s, --site string              Override the site provided in CSV file for all hosts
```

### Options inherited from parent commands

```
      --catalog-endpoint string      Catalog Service Endpoint (default "https://api.kind.internal/")
      --debug-headers                emit debug-style headers separating columns via '|' character
      --deployment-endpoint string   Deployment Service Endpoint (default "https://api.kind.internal/")
  -n, --noauth                       use without authentication checks
  -p, --project string               Active project name
  -v, --verbose                      produce verbose output
```

### SEE ALSO

* [catalog create](catalog_create.md)	 - Create various catalog service entities

###### Auto generated by spf13/cobra on 3-Jun-2025
